Dates: 27.10.2020

General description: 
This campaign was conducted in public roads in the north of Italy (from Ispra to Casale Monferrato and vice versa) and includes a day of car-following testing. It involves two vehicles in a car-platoon formation. 

During the whole experiment, the car-following order was the same and the follower vehicle was driving at all times with the ACC on. There were cases that the driver needed to manually brake, therefore ACC was deactivated. Such instances are known and reported in the csv files.

Total number of vehicles: 2

Equipment: Ublox 9 and OBD.

Data processing: Parts with tolls, tunnels were removed from the dataseries. Cubic splines interpolation was implemented to achieve 10 Hz frequency. Data are not filtered.

Columns description:
Time:	Common time frame for all vehicles (s)
Speed:	Raw Speed (Doppler) (m/s)
Lat:	Latitude (rad)
Lon:	Longitude (rad)
Alt:	Altitude (m)
E:	East (x) coordinate in the local ENU plane (common center for all vehicles) (m)
N:	North (y) coordinate in the local ENU plane (common center for all vehicles) (m)
U:	Up (z) coordinate in the local ENU plane (common center for all vehicles) (m)
IVS:	Inter Vehicle Spacing computed from GNSS data after bumper to bumper correction (m)
Driver:	The driver of the vehicle: “Human” for manual driving, “ACC” for ACC driving as measured from OBD(acceleration pedal position)

Csv Metadata information:
Metadata that are trip-experiment specific are saved as header (comma seperated) (5 rows) in the csv file in this example form:
Date,DD,MM,YYYY		
Vehicle_order,veh1,veh2,etc	
Number_of_vehicles,5					
ACC, 1 					

Comments:
-ACC option: 0 when the whole experiment is conducted in manually driving conditions, 1 when the whole experiment is conducted with ACC,  2 in mixed driving conditions.

-For the leading vehicle the measurement was recorded with a different protocol, so the following information, altitude and U column are not included (since it was not available in that protocol). 

-IVS1 denotes IVS between vehicle 1 and vehicle 2, etc. Likewise for Eff_distance and Rel_Speed columns.