Dates: 26.02.2019, 27.02.2019, 28.02.2019.

General description: 
This campaign was conducted in the first quarter of 2019 and involves three days of car-following testing from Ispra (VA) to Vicolungo (NO) and back, in northern Italy. The testing was performed with five vehicles of various brands and models driving on car-platoon formation. Τhe tests were scheduled for non-peak hours in order to minimize the disturbances from other road users. 
The campaign was on road experiment and all vehicles were equipped with Ublox 8 GNSS data acquisition devices. The acquired data had more or less a sampling frequency of 3-5 Hz, but cubic splines interpolation was implemented to achieve 10 Hz frequency.
The leader was instructed to drive manually and perform occasional random deceleration and accelerations over a desired speed in a realistic way. The followers, whenever possible were driving with ACC on apart from a day when manual driving situations were tested.

Total number of vehicles: 7 (each trip involved 5 vehicles in the platoon)

Equipment: Ublox 8 and OBD only to check instances where the brake pedal position was on.

Data processing: Big noisy parts were removed from the dataseries. Cubic splines interpolation was implemented to achieve 10 Hz frequency.

Columns description:
Time:	Common time frame for all vehicles (s)
Speed:	Raw Speed (Doppler) (m/s)
Lat:	Latitude (rad)
Lon:	Longitude (rad)
Alt:	Altitude (m)
E:	East (x) coordinate in the local ENU plane (common center for all vehicles) (m)
N:	North (y) coordinate in the local ENU plane (common center for all vehicles) (m)
U:	Up (z) coordinate in the local ENU plane (common center for all vehicles) (m)
VE:	Speed in the East direction of the local ENU plane (m/s)
VN:	Speed in the North direction of the local ENU plane (m/s)
VU:	Speed in the Up direction of the local ENU plane (m/s)
IVS:	Inter Vehicle Spacing computed from GNSS data after bumper to bumper correction (m)
Driver:	The driver of the vehicle: “Human” for manual driving, “ACC” for ACC driving

Csv file naming:
Filenames have the format of mentioning the following information separated by underscore:
1. Trip start and destination
2. date
3. In case more recordings were done for one trip, the word rec is included.
4. In case data connnected to a trip or a recording were very noisy, these parts were cut out. Hence the trip or recording was separated in parts. So the filename also includes the part 1, 2 etc in the title.
Example of a filename: Cher-JRC_240918_rec2_part1

Csv Metadata information:
Metadata that are trip-experiment specific are saved as header (comma seperated) (5 rows) in the csv file in this example form:
Date,DD,MM,YYYY		
Vehicle_order,veh1,veh2,etc	
Number_of_vehicles,5					
ACC, 1 
Distance_setting,min					

Comments:
-ACC option: 0 when the whole experiment is conducted in manually driving conditions, 1 when the whole experiment is conducted with ACC,  2 in mixed driving conditions.

-IVS1 denotes IVS between vehicle 1 and vehicle 2, etc.	

-There are some small instances where IVS gets negative at files: JRC-VC_260219_part4_highway and VC-JRC_260219_part1.	
				

